

## Assignment #5

**READING**

I agree with the idea that programmers are not only doing technical work, but also creative expression, which has a lot of similarities with artistic creation. He emphasises the ‘aesthetics’ of programming and creates elegant, simple solutions. Programmers are more concerned with building systems that are scalable, efficient and easy to maintain, while ‘elegant’ code is more about clean architecture and clear design. In collaborative work, empathy is also needed, and it plays a key role in increasing productivity, improving product quality, optimising the user experience, fostering teamwork, and improving code to be the best it can be.

However, in the article, Paul Graham mentions that ‘hackers’ should be free and rebellious, focusing on pursuing the limits of technology and driving innovation, rather than simply meeting business needs. He depicts an idealised and passionate hacker culture. As the technology industry has become more commercialised, especially as tech companies have reached maturity, the work of many programmers is no longer purely a ‘hacker’ culture. Many programmers now work more to solve specific business problems than to push the boundaries of technology. While technological innovation is still important, organisations often require programmers to work within the constraints of budget, time and market demand - a business-oriented environment that is different from the hacker ethos of the early days. And, as society evolves, the industry matures, and technology advances, various career roles become more specific and specialised. The need for free-spirited, creative programmers may also diminish in a society evolving with rapid project delivery and a generally exemplary design framework.

**CODING**

Sketch #1: https://editor.p5js.org/Lucacacacacaca/sketches/Dp6lpUFwr

**REFLECTING**

I find that most of these images favour abstraction and simplicity. It encourages me to design expressive and creative images from simple shapes and basic geometric elements. Secondly, by setting certain rules, random functions and other algorithms, different effects such as dynamic effects, interactive effects, etc. can be generated, and even different styles of artworks can be generated by randomising parameters. Generating artworks can show great creativity and complexity.
